---
title: 3.6.2 Nonlinear Transient Behavior
tags:

---

## 🔗 Notes (Zotero)
### 💡 Technical concepts
- `steady-state phase error` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81)
	[[Steady-state error]]

### ✅️ Important
- `When a PLL is first turned on, or if it experiences a large frequency step at the input, then it may lose lock. In this case, the linear control theory that has been used so far will not apply as nonlinearities are involved in lock acquisition.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81) Important.
- `The main reason for nonlinearity is the finite linear range of the phase detector.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81) Important.
- `If the loop attempts to lock the VCO to a frequency outside its range, then the loop will never acquire lock. In addition, if the loop has a finite dc gain, then the range of lock acquisition may also be limited by the finite range of the phase detector.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81) Important.
- `In general, a frequency step will result in a nonzero phase error.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81) Important.
- `The general transfer function for phase error` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81)
	[[General transfer function for phase error of a PLL]].
- `Now, if a frequency step is applied to this system, the steady-state phase error will be` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81)
	[[Steady-state error of the general transfer function for phase error of a PLL]].
- `In the second-order PFD/CP system, the steady-state phase error will always be zero because there is an integrator in F(s), and F(0) will go to ∞ in (3.56). In other loops without an integrator in F(s), the phase error will be finite.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 82) Important.
- `However, in the case of the PDF/CP loop, this is not an issue as, in lock, the steady-state phase error is always zero.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 82) Important.
- `In this case, the locking range is determined exclusively by the VCO.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 82) Important.
- `So, if the loop is going to experience a transient frequency step, then how long does it take the loop to reacquire lock¿ (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 82)
	[[Settling time to the transient frequency step experienced loop reacquiring lock]].
- `In this case, the charge pump current will alternately turn on and off. When the charge pump current is off, then vR will be zero, and the control voltage vc will be equal to the voltage across the capacitor vC1 . However, when the charge pump current is on, then vc will be equal to vc = vC1 + IR, where IR is the voltage drop across the resistor.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 83) Important.
- `When the capacitor C2 is included, as a result of its filtering effect, the behavior is a little more complicated. In this case, when the charge pump is on, most of the current still flows into C1 , which still happily charges towards lock, but when it turns off, there is no longer an instantaneous change in vc . In this case, C2 keeps vc high, and current flows from C2 back into C1 through R.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 83) Important.
- `Thus, the presence of C2 tends to smooth out the ripple on the control voltage.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 83) Important.

### ️🔶 Explanation
- `Additionally, there is a finite range over which the loop can acquire lock because VCOs have a finite tuning range.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 81)
	[[Calculate the finite tuning range of the VCO]].
- `When the steady-state error exceeds the linear range of the phase detector, the loop will lose lock.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 82)
	[[Loss of loop lock when the steady-state error exceeds the linear range of the phase detector]].
- `Therefore, the average current produced by the charge pump until the loop acquires lock will be approximately I/2.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 82)
	Why the average current produced by the charge pump until the loop acquires lock will be approximately I/2.

## 📝 My reflections
- 

## 🌐 Connections
- 

## 🧭 Next steps
- 

 