---
title: 3.6 Transient Behavior of PLLs
tags:

---

## 📄 Subsections index
- [[CHAPTER 3 System-Level Overview of PLL-Based Frequency Synthesis/3.6 Transient Behavior of PLLs/3.6.2 Nonlinear Transient Behavior/3.6.2 Nonlinear Transient Behavior|3.6.2 Nonlinear Transient Behavior]]

## 🔗 Notes (Zotero)
### 💡 Technical concepts
- `cycle slipping` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76)
	[[Cycle slipping]] - Nonlinear event that a loop experiences when an event at the input occurs that causes the phase error to exceed 2\pi.
- `acquisition mode` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76)
	[[Acquisition mode]] - Loop (PLL) working to correct the phase and force the VCO to track the input.
- `input frequency step` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 77)
	[[Input frequency step]].
- `It can be seen that a damping constant of 0.707 to 1 results in the fastest settling (reduction of phase error to zero).` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 77)
	[[Value of damping constant for the fastest settling time]].

### ✅️ Important
- `However,the behavior of a real PLL is much more complex than either of these two analysescan explain. This is because, until the loop starts tracking the phase of the input, or, alternatively, if there is a very large step or ramp in the phase of the input, theloop's output phase may not be able to follow the input phase. This is primarilydue to the limitations of the phase detector, which has a narrow linear range.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76) Important.
- `If an event at the input occursthat causes the phase error to exceed 2p, then the loop will experience a nonlinear event: cycle slipping.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76) Important.
- `Remember that in the previous analysis, it was assumed thatthe phase detector was linear.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76) Important.
- `This nonlinear event will cause a transient responsethat cannot be predicted by the theory of the previous section.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76) Important.
- `When the loop goes into this process, it is said to be in acquisition mode as it istrying to acquire phase lock but has not done so yet.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76) Important.
- `Note that acquisition alsohappens when the PLL is first powered since the VCO and reference will be at a random phase and will probably have a frequency difference.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76) Important.
- `For linear transient behavior, the phase error, rather than the output phase, is needed` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 77)
	[[Transfer function for the linear transient behavior analysis]].
- `In this section, we will see the response to an input frequency step Dv. Since the input is described by phase, we take the phase equivalent of a frequency step, which is equivalent to a ramp of phase (we note that phase is the integral of frequency, and the integral of a step is a ramp).` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 77)
	[[Excitation of a PLL using step frequency]].
- `transfer function (3.43), results in` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 77)
	[[Time-domain of transfer function of phase error and phase reference in linear transient behavior analysis]].
- `Depending on the required level of settling, one can determine the settling time.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 77) Important.
- `In fact, the extra capacitor in the loop filter has been added in order to provide attenuation at the reference frequency.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 78) Important.
- `Therefore, the transient expression for the control voltage is given by` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 79)
	[[Transient expression of transfer function of VCO control voltage and phase reference in linear transient behavior analysis]].
- `Interestingly, from this expression, it looks like high zis best for fast settling; however, it should be noted that, even though the frequency appears to lock quickly, there is still a long period before the system is phase locked.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 79) Important.
- `maximum normalized phase error` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 80)
	[[Maximum phase error instant from the phase error transfer function]].

### ️🔶 Explanation
- `Forexample, the tristate PFD has a linear range of ±2p.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76)
	[[Linear range of a tristate PFD]].
- `In extreme cases,the VCO may even be forced beyond its linear range of operation, which may result in the loop losing lock indefinitely.` (Rogers et al., 2006, p. 76)
	[[Extreme cases that forces VCO beyond its linear range of operation and the loop lose lock indefinitely]].

## 📝 My reflections
- 

## 🌐 Connections
- 

## 🧭 Next steps
- 

 